README.md, before:

# Kickstarter-Analysis
Week 1 for Columbia's DA Bootcamp

# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project

**Purpose**
The purpose of this analysis was to put into practice key functions of Excel
which included, filtering and formatting the raw data given, creating pivot 
tables to analyze the statistics of the raw data, and to create visuals, pivot 
graphs, from pivot charts to express those results for our client named, Louise. 
And finally to familarize ourselves with GitHub, to commit our edits and upload 
our analyzed data into a repository.
	
**Background**
Excel is a must-have skill when it comes to data analysis. It is the basis for 
collecting data, analyzing it, and displaying it to an audience for easier digestion. 
Through this exercise, we were able to learn common functions such as Filters, 
Sorting, VLOOKUP, Pivot Charts & Graphs, and more to organize bulk data into 
meaningful inferences that can be applied practically to solve problems, answer questions. 
	
In this challenge, we were given the aim to help Louise find out how other play campaigns 
fared compared to their launch dates and funding goals using the Kickstarter dataset. 
The dataset contained information such as their fund goal amount, the 
success/fail/cancel/or live outcome of the kickstarter campaign, and the date of launch.
Using the provided raw data, we needed to extract information to then run statistics for
the counts of each outcome to answer Louise's inquiries. 
 
## Analysis and Challenges

**Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date**
Firstly, we extracted the date from the **UNIX timestamps** using the following formula 
below, then the year from the date using excel's year function: **year(cell)**. 

![unix_timestamp_to_excel_date](Resources/unix_timestamp_to_excel_date)

To answer Louise's first queston of what the theater outcomes were based on the launch 
date, we created a **pivot chart** from the kickstarter worksheet that was able to filter
by parent category (theater) and year, list the months as rows, and show the outcomes in
columns. The pivot table showed counts for each month of the number of successes, fails,
canceled theater campaigns, and those that were live (still active). We selected only the
successes, fails, and canceled campaigns because there was no significance to view live
campaigns since it was not applicable to Louise's question.
		
![Theater_Outcomes_PivotChart](Resources/Theater_Outcomes_PivotChart.png)		
		
Using the pivot chart, we then created a pivot line graph comparing the outcomes of each
play campaign to its launch date.

![Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)
**Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals**
Secondly, we compared the campaign outcomes to the goal fund amounts. 
**Challenges and Difficulties Encountered**
## Results

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?

- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
- What are some limitations of this dataset?

- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?

Commit message:

added details and images for outcomes vs goals

README.md, after:

# Kickstarter-Analysis
Week 1 for Columbia's DA Bootcamp

# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project

**Purpose**
The purpose of this analysis was to put into practice key functions of Excel
which included, filtering and formatting the raw data given, creating pivot 
tables to analyze the statistics of the raw data, and to create visuals, pivot 
graphs, from pivot charts to express those results for our client named, Louise. 
And finally to familarize ourselves with GitHub, to commit our edits and upload 
our analyzed data into a repository.
	
**Background**
Excel is a must-have skill when it comes to data analysis. It is the basis for 
collecting data, analyzing it, and displaying it to an audience for easier digestion. 
Through this exercise, we were able to learn common functions such as Filters, 
Sorting, VLOOKUP, Pivot Charts & Graphs, and more to organize bulk data into 
meaningful inferences that can be applied practically to solve problems, answer questions. 
	
In this challenge, we were given the aim to help Louise find out how other play campaigns 
fared compared to their launch dates and funding goals using the Kickstarter dataset. 
The dataset contained information such as their fund goal amount, the 
success/fail/cancel/or live outcome of the kickstarter campaign, and the date of launch.
Using the provided raw data, we needed to extract information to then run statistics for
the counts of each outcome to answer Louise's inquiries. 
 
## Analysis and Challenges

**Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date**
Firstly, we extracted the date from the **UNIX timestamps** using the following formula 
below, then the year from the date using excel's year function: **year(cell)**. 

![unix_timestamp_to_excel_date](Resources/unix_timestamp_to_excel_date.png)

To answer Louise's first queston of what the theater outcomes were based on the launch 
date, we created a **pivot chart** from the kickstarter worksheet that was able to filter
by parent category (theater) and year, list the months as rows, and show the outcomes in
columns. The pivot table showed counts for each month of the number of successes, fails,
canceled theater campaigns, and those that were live (still active). We selected only the
successes, fails, and canceled campaigns because there was no significance to view live
campaigns since it was not applicable to Louise's question.
		
![Theater_Outcomes_PivotChart](Resources/Theater_Outcomes_PivotChart.png)		

Filtering based on the "parent category" for "theater" and sorting the campaign outcomes
in decending order, we see that successful, failed, and cancel are in the order we want.
Using the pivot chart, we then created a pivot line graph comparing the outcomes of each
play campaign to its launch date. 

![Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)
The first deliverable is then completed

**Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals**
Secondly, we compared the campaign outcomes to the goal fund amounts. This required us
to create a visual that displayed the percentage of successful, failed, or canceled plays.
By using the countifs() function, we were able to count the number of each outcome based 
on their goal fund ranges.

![Countif_formula](Resources/Countif_formula.png)

After inputing the function along with its conditions into excel, the resulting data table
was created.

![Outcomes_Based_on_Goals_Table](Resources/Outcomes_Based_on_Goals_Table.png)

Then, we generated a line graph showing the trend of outcomes compared to goal funds.

![Outcomes_vs_Goals](Resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)



**Challenges and Difficulties Encountered**
## Results

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?

- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
- What are some limitations of this dataset?

- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
